what if you could send one email that
dramatically improved Customer Loyalty
increased customer satisfaction saved
you thousands perhaps even hundreds of
thousands of dollars and had the
potential to make you more money would
you send that email I bet you would
today we're talking about customer
surveys why you need to send them what
are some of the best practices and how
they can dramatically improve your
bottom
line hey thanks for joining me my name
is shelene Johnson and today that's what
we're talking about here on build your
tribe we're talking about surveying your
your customers and this is something we
often probably do on I hope you're doing
on social media especially with the use
of the polls on both Tik Tok and
Instagram and now even on YouTube it's
so invaluable to actually know what it
is your customers like what it is they
love what it is they are not responding
to you don't have to guess today today
was social media like back in the day I
always say back in the day cuz you know
you've got two hosts to build your tribe
one is a young buck and the other one is
shall we say wiser she's been around the
block she's been here long enough to
remember a time when the only way you
could figure out what it is your
customers liked is you had to survey
them in person there was no email I'm
really dating myself there there were no
digital surveys there was no social
media today you don't have to guess but
I think a lot of us are still in that
habit of like okay I've I've got to be
the genius marketer I have to know what
my customers want what my customers like
what my customers prefer how they want
me to price this what names they respond
to all those things you don't have to do
that so let this be your reminder in
today I'm going to break it all down for
you first of all the reasons why we need
to survey our customers is that's how we
figure out what they're satisfied with
and what they're dissatisfied with I
mean we can all guess but I can think of
so many times when we've surveyed our
customers thinking we're going to get
one outcome or they were going to give
us you know what part of a particular
program they really appreciated the most
or liked the most or what was most
valuable to them and so many times we've
been wrong I mean so many times it's not
even funny and every time I'm like see
this is why we have to pull them the
second reason why you want to pull or
survey your customers even if it's a
small list like even if you have like a
100 customers 50 customers that's enough
this is the only way you're going to
improve instead of having to constantly
go back to the drawing board and figure
out like what new product or service you
should offer my recommendation to you is
don't do that it's already working and
improve upon it surveys provide you
invaluable feedback so you understand
like what pieces you need to improve
what things they really are responding
to what things they want more of and how
you can improve all of your offerings
and the third reason why you want to
survey your customers is for brand
loyalty when customers know that the
brand is listening and not just
listening but actually responding and
taking action it's very powerful plus it
gives you a legitimate reason to reach
out again to send another email so I was
only going to give you three reasons why
but then I realized there's a fourth
really big reason why you need to pull
your customers and it's because you want
your customers your clients to feel like
they're a part of the culture right like
you're building a community you're not
building a dictatorship which means your
community wants to feel like they are a
part of what it is you're creating a
guest featured here before on build your
tribe and one of my dearest friends
Warren Carlile he's the founder of oo
Nation it's like the world's largest
octopus fan club if you're trying to
tell me that you think your weird Niche
doesn't have enough people trust me he's
like proof positive that it it does and
what he what I love he's done is created
this incredible community and a big
piece of how they move
merchandise is by polling their
community and asking them like what do
you want what is it you like what is it
you want to see next what's exciting to
you you don't have to be the creative
let your community tell you what it is
they want personally I think the best
way to do this is by using a couple of
different tools that I'm going to share
with you in just a moment most of these
have a free version or if if not a free
version a very lowcost version and they
can be implemented into an email I
prefer you to do an email survey but if
you don't yet have an email list in fact
even if you do have an email list please
also do this on your social media it's
sometimes very interesting to see the
how people respond on your social versus
how they do on your email list and both
are incredibly valuable if you're going
to be doing this with your email list be
sure to segment your list according to
what it is you're going to be asking
about so if you're asking a generic
question for anyone who might be on your
email list even if they've never been a
customer that's fine but if you're
really looking for more detailed
information about customer experience
you want to hear from your customers who
purchase from you you want to hear from
people who actually are going to give
you an honest opinion frankly the people
who if I look in my database and I look
at the customers who have bought every
single thing I've ever created water
bottles and and and journals and
workouts and clothing and they were with
me for you know powder blue days and and
smart success and marketing impact
Academy like all the things that's
probably not a good person for me to
survey because they're not going to give
me a truly honest opinion like I I've
already won them over like they're
already family do you know what I mean
it's like asking your very best friend
the person who would never want to hurt
your feelings
um for their feedback you're probably
not going to get as honest of an opinion
as you're going to get from someone
who's who feels Anonymous and doesn't
have that same emotional connection to
you so segment your list accordingly
then you want to craft your questions to
be very concise the shorter the better
so when I say shorter I mean the survey
length should be short and each question
should also be short people don't like
to respond to surveys and we're going to
talk about how to get them to do that in
just a moment but even when when you're
looking at your questions read them and
reread them and ask yourself could I be
using fewer words could I make these
questions shorter and more concise have
multiple people read over the questions
and see if maybe you've missed an option
if it's like a multiple choice or if it
needs to be a fill-in the blank and be
careful that you're not leading the
witness although you can do that to some
extent and like this is like a little
extra added benefit of sending a survey
and I remember a company recently that
sent me a survey and I thought wow you
know what they're doing with this survey
I don't know if it was their intention
it's a monthly membership that I pay for
and I'm like this is such a good monthly
membership and they kind of Illustrated
it by asking the questions about how I
valued certain things and it was almost
like a reminder and to me I was like oh
my gosh I've got to use this more often
like I'm paying for the service and it
is incredibly valuable and I was
reminded how valuable it was just by the
way they crafted their questions and you
bet your Bottom Dollar I sure did copy
and paste all of those questions and
I'll figure out how to modify them for
our own business speaking of getting
people to respond to the surveys
obviously length is important how long
should it be it depends right so if if
we're talking about like in-depth
research and you're talking to customers
who are making a very big large purchase
they're probably going to spend a little
bit more time on a survey especially if
there's
incentive if it's somebody who's maybe
hasn't even purchased yet they've just
landed on your website or they've joined
your email list but they're not a loyal
customer yet they have very little
invested in you so you can't expect them
to invest much time in you to
incentivize your customers to respond to
those surveys one of the easiest ways to
do that is to offer to put them into a
free giveaway like what could you give
away could it be a consultation could it
be you're giving away 10 fill in the
blanks of whatever it is that you offer
so incentivize them with some like some
type of a drawing or a chance to win or
you could just also give each person who
responds a special discount code people
like to be rewarded not everyone needs a
reward some people just love the fact
that their voice their opinion matters
which is why I also encourage you to at
least in one or two of your questions
leave space for them to just tell you
what they want to tell you where you're
not giving them just the specific
answers you're looking for you're
letting them elaborate and some people
really will however to really make a
survey valuable you've got to follow up
on what it is you learned you've got to
take action and and not just in a way
that you know benefits you as the
company let me give you an example of a
survey that we did and then we took
action and all the information we got it
really benefited us and I guess you
could say it benefited the customer too
and I've shared this once before on
build your tribe but we created a
program called micro influencer 101 or
something like that and it was crazy
there was so much demand for this
program and then when we launched it it
was like
crickets and we were like what in the
world is it the wrong price point we
surveyed I remember so we knew it wasn't
the wrong price point it was perfectly
priced and it wasn't until we did a
survey of our members based on a hunch
that we determined the reason why the
program wasn't selling is because most
Nano and micro influencers don't
consider themselves
influencers they consider themselves
somebody with a small following and
generally speaking the perception that
most of our customers had at the time of
someone who's an influencer was someone
who had a lot of followers and frankly
wasn't that
trustworthy so we then pulled our
members to figure out like okay just
playing with words would you be
interested in a course that helped you
how learn how to become a nano
influencer would you be interested in a
course that taught you how how to reach
out to Brands and get your own deals
even if you have a small following and
the response was like 90 to 10% it was
crazy people did not think of themselves
or want to learn how to be an influencer
but they wanted to know how to secure
brand deals it's the freaking same thing
but if your customer isn't responding to
those words you're losing money just
sending that one survey made us
thousands and thousands and thousands of
dollars that otherwise we wouldn't have
made because people did not respond to
the name recently we did a survey of our
members for the insta clubhub which is
the Instagram coaching program that
Brock and I run together we would love
to have you try insta clubhub and you
can you can try for $7 and you get 14
days of insta clubhub it's pretty
freaking cool and you'll be able to see
exactly what it is I'm about to tell you
about anyways I'm going to put the link
to that below this episode just click on
it you in fact you can click on it while
this is playing right now and you just
enter your credit card for the $7 you
can cancel at the end of 14 days and you
won't be charged anything but it gives
you a chance to look around and and
really see the value of the insta
clubhub so we pulled our members this is
about a year ago and we assumed that the
number one most
valuable asset of the insta clubhub were
the monthly live interactive trainings
that bra and I do and we have other
members of our team that join us and we
do those twice a month we thought for
sure that was going to be cuz it's
incredibly valuable right and it's
always like very up to dat we're always
like teaching like what's going on right
now or you know like how do you I don't
want to say hack the algorithm but like
how do you know like what's working and
what's not what's a waste of time what's
worth your time and we assumed like that
was going to be the most valuable thing
that people loved about the membership
and much to our shrin much to our
surprise it wasn't it's it ranked very
close to Second like almost tied with
second and third but the number one
response that people found the most
valuable about the club was that they
had the ability to customize what things
they were learning so they love the fact
that if they if they were like already
pretty advanced in Instagram they could
customize like where they started and
they knew what level they were going to
be at which was amazing so what that
helped us do is do a better job of
really cleaning up the content so that
you only were watching things that you
just did you didn't know and we weren't
assuming that people did or didn't know
anything they lit you literally take a
quiz to know where it is you should
start just making that one simple change
I mean our customer reviews are through
the freaking roof and frankly so are
their results okay I'm going to share
with you a screenshot from one of our
students this is these are the stats
from Raider chaos check out these stats
I mean I love this this makes me so
happy but you know you can see stats
like that and you're like oh so someone
went viral no like it's pretty
incredible if you watch the people who
are actually implementing what they're
learning which you know the quick super
quick lessons they get incredible
results that's another great way to use
surveys you can use surveys to figure
out who your best customers are and
reach out to them to encourage them to
be testimonials your success stories
like you want to brag about them like I
just told you about radar chaos but so
many other you know ways that you can
highlight and Spotlight your most
successful customers and everybody loves
a little PR now let's talk about free
online tools that you can use for your
surveys well there's of course Google
forms which is free and it's a tool that
allows you to create surveys and forms
and it collects all the responses it's
very easy you can embed this on your
website or you can actually embed it
into your email personally I love using
Survey Monkey I I think Survey Monkey is
awesome I do think it's a paid program I
know we pay for it but maybe they've got
a free version too oh they do they do
actually I'm looking at my notes they do
offer a free plan with some of the
features but it's so cool the way it
allows you to create these surveys and
then just the way it breaks everything
down for you and again you can embed it
into your email or on your website three
additional options include type form
karoo and optin master optim master is a
cool option because option optin because
it allows you to create these really
cool popups that you can put on your
website because let's face it sometimes
the best time to survey your customers
is like when they're in the best mood
right which is often times right after a
survey how many times have you left a
website and immediately you get a pop-up
that says hey would you be willing to
tell your friends about this like what
was your experience that's the perfect
time to send a survey and that's kind of
the last thing I wanted to leave you
with is consider the timing of your
survey no one has time very few people
open emails even though email is the way
to go right but you've got to get people
excited to open an email and not many
people are like hey I'm super excited to
just give you 10 minutes of my day for a
discount you know you've got to make it
enticing for them that boils down to
your subject lines so as an extra added
bonus I would like to recommend that you
check out our video episode or if you're
listening on the audio episode listen to
the episode we did on chat GPT prompts
because chat GPT is a wonderful way for
you to develop better questions for your
surveys better subject lines for your
emails and better copy on all of your
website pages so if you haven't already
please be sure to listen to that episode
of build your tribe I think you're going
to find actually we've done quite a few
chat jpt episodes and it it's just a
great way to boost your business
remember keep your surveys short sweet
to the point think about the timing of
them and use them more often than you
think hey it was my goal to be brief to
be bright to make it fun and then be
done ladies and gentlemen we're done
I'll see you
[Music]
soon